[Excel] (Data types) Add entity value card article (#3427)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/excel-data-types-entity-card.md

                    properties: ["Quantity Per Unit", "Unit Price"]
                },
                {
                    layout: "List",
                    title: "Additional information",
                    collapsible: true,
                    collapsed: true, // This section will be collapsed when the card is opened.
                    properties: ["Discontinued"]
                }
            ]
        }
    }
};
```

The following screenshot shows an entity value card that uses the preceding code snippets. The screenshot shows the `title` object, which uses the **Product Name** and is set to **Pavlova**. The screenshot also shows `sections`. The **Quantity and price** section is collapsible and contains **Quantity Per Unit** and **Unit Price**. The **Additional information** field is collapsible and is collapsed when the card is opened.

:::image type="content" source="../images/excel-data-types-entity-card-sections.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing an entity value data type with the card layout window displayed. The card shows the card title and sections.":::

## Card data attribution

> Entity value cards can display a data attribution to give credit to the provider of the information in the entity card. The entity value [`provider`](/javascript/api/excel/excel.entitycellvalue#excel-excel-entitycellvalue-provider-member) property uses the [`CellValueProviderAttributes`](/javascript/api/excel/excel.cellvalueproviderattributes) object, which  defines the `description`, `logoSourceAddress`, and `logoTargetAddress` values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Entity value cards can display a data attribution to give credit to the provider of the information in the entity card. The entity value [`provider`](/javascript/api/excel/excel.entitycellvalue#excel-excel-entitycellvalue-provider-member) property uses the [`CellValueProviderAttributes`](/javascript/api/excel/excel.cellvalueproviderattributes) object, which defines the `description`, `logoSourceAddress`, and `logoTargetAddress` values.
```

---

# Use cards with entity value data types (preview)

> [!NOTE]
> Data types APIs are currently only available in public preview. Preview APIs are subject to change and are not intended for use in a production environment. We recommend that you try them out in test and development environments only. Do not use preview APIs in a production environment or within business-critical documents.
>
> To use preview APIs:
>
> - You must reference the **beta** library on the content delivery network (CDN) (https://appsforoffice.microsoft.com/lib/beta/hosted/office.js). The [type definition file](https://appsforoffice.microsoft.com/lib/beta/hosted/office.d.ts) for TypeScript compilation and IntelliSense is found at the CDN and [DefinitelyTyped](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/master/types/office-js-preview/index.d.ts). You can install these types with `npm install --save-dev @types/office-js-preview`. For additional information, see the [@microsoft/office-js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@microsoft/office-js) NPM package readme.
> - You may need to join the [Office Insider program](https://insider.office.com) for access to more recent Office builds.
>

> > To try out data types in Office on Windows, you must have an Excel build number greater than or equal to 16.0.14626.10000. To try out data types in Office on Mac, you must have an Excel build number greater than or equal to 16.55.21102600.

Reviewer 2: Consider moving this to an include file for this article and the other data types articles.

> This article describes how to use the [Excel JavaScript API](../reference/overview/excel-add-ins-reference-overview.md) to work with the card component of entity value data types. An entity value, or [EntityCellValue](/javascript/api/excel/excel.entitycellvalue), is a container for data types and similar to an object in object oriented programming.

Reviewer 2: OOP usually has a hyphen when written out.
```suggestion
This article describes how to use the [Excel JavaScript API](../reference/overview/excel-add-ins-reference-overview.md) to work with the card component of entity value data types. An entity value, or [EntityCellValue](/javascript/api/excel/excel.entitycellvalue), is a container for data types and similar to an object in object-oriented programming.
```

> This article describes how to use the [Excel JavaScript API](../reference/overview/excel-add-ins-reference-overview.md) to work with the card component of entity value data types. An entity value, or [EntityCellValue](/javascript/api/excel/excel.entitycellvalue), is a container for data types and similar to an object in object oriented programming.

Reviewer 2: Can we add a sentence or two about why a customer would want to use this feature? It starts with the "what", but a brief ease-in with the "why" would help attract and orient readers.

> The card component displays as a modal window in the Excel UI and can show additional information contained within an entity value, beyond what's already visible in a cell. This article introduces card properties, layout options for the card, and card data attribution functionality.

Reviewer 2: Consider splitting this into shorter sentences.
```suggestion
The card component displays as a modal window in the Excel UI. It shows additional information contained within an entity value, beyond what's already visible in a cell. This article introduces card properties, layout options for the card, and card data attribution functionality.
```

The following screenshot shows an example of an open entity value card, in this case for the **Tofu** product from a list of grocery store products.

:::image type="content" source="../images/excel-data-types-entity-card-tofu.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing an entity value data type with the card window displayed.":::

## Card properties

The entity value [`properties`](/javascript/api/excel/excel.entitycellvalue#excel-excel-entitycellvalue-properties-member) property allows you to set customized information about your data types. The `properties` key accepts nested data types. Each nested property, or data type, must have a `type` and `basicValue` setting.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The nested `properties` data types are used in combination with the [Card layout](#card-layout) values described in the subsequent article section. After defining a nested data type in `properties`, it must be assigned in the `layouts` property to display on the card.

The following code snippet shows the JSON for an entity value with multiple data types nested within `properties`.

> [!NOTE]

> > The following code snippet is an excerpt. To see the complete code sample, visit the [OfficeDev/office-js-snippets](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-snippets/blob/main/samples/excel/85-preview-apis/data-types-entity-values.yaml) repository.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion to reduce the repetition of the term "snippet" and the partial nature of the snippet.
```suggestion
> To see how to use this JSON in a complete code sample, visit the [OfficeDev/office-js-snippets](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-snippets/blob/main/samples/excel/85-preview-apis/data-types-entity-values.yaml) repository.
```

```json
const entity: Excel.EntityCellValue = {
    type: Excel.CellValueType.entity,
    text: productName,
    properties: {
        "Product ID": {
            type: Excel.CellValueType.string,
            basicValue: productID.toString() || ""
        },
        "Product Name": {
            type: Excel.CellValueType.string,
            basicValue: productName || ""
        },
        "Quantity Per Unit": {
            type: Excel.CellValueType.string,
            basicValue: product.quantityPerUnit || ""
        },
        "Unit Price": {
            type: Excel.CellValueType.formattedNumber,
            basicValue: product.unitPrice,
            numberFormat: "$* #,##0.00"
        },
        Discontinued: {
            type: Excel.CellValueType.boolean,
            basicValue: product.discontinued || false
        }
    },
    layouts: {
        // Enter layout settings here.
    }
};

> ```

Reviewer 2: This code is red in GitHub because it's not technically JSON. It's TypeScript that's defining a JSON struct. I'd recommend labelling it TypeScript (or removing the type declaration at the top and labelling it JavaScript).

The following entity value JSON code snippet shows a `card` layout with a nested `title` object and three `sections` within the card. Note that the `title` property `"Product Name"` has a corresponding data type in the preceding [Card properties](#card-properties) article section. The `sections` property takes a nested array and uses the [`CardLayoutSectionStandardProperties`](/javascript/api/excel/excel.cardlayoutsectionstandardproperties) object to define the appearance of each section.

Within each card section you can specify elements like `layout`, `title`, and `properties`. The `layout` key uses the [`CardLayoutListSection`](/javascript/api/excel/excel.cardlayoutlistsection) object and accepts the value `"List"`. The `properties` key accepts an array of strings. Note that the `properties` values, such as `"Product ID"`, have corresponding data types in the preceding [Card properties](#card-properties) article section. Sections can also be collapsible and can be defined with boolean values as collapsed or not collapsed when the entity card is opened in the Excel UI.

> [!NOTE]

> > The following code snippet is an excerpt. To see the complete code sample, visit the [OfficeDev/office-js-snippets](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-snippets/blob/main/samples/excel/85-preview-apis/data-types-entity-values.yaml) repository.

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion as above.
```suggestion
> To see how to use this JSON in a complete code sample, visit the [OfficeDev/office-js-snippets](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-snippets/blob/main/samples/excel/85-preview-apis/data-types-entity-values.yaml) repository.
```

```json

> const entity: Excel.EntityCellValue = {

Reviewer 2: Same JSON/JS comment as above.

    type: Excel.CellValueType.entity,
    text: productName,
    properties: {
        // Enter property settings here.
    },
    layouts: {
        card: {
            title: { 
                property: "Product Name" 
            },
            sections: [
                {
                    layout: "List",
                    properties: ["Product ID"]
                },
                {
                    layout: "List",
                    title: "Quantity and price",
                    collapsible: true,
                    collapsed: false, // This section will not be collapsed when the card is opened.
                    properties: ["Quantity Per Unit", "Unit Price"]
                },
                {
                    layout: "List",
                    title: "Additional information",
                    collapsible: true,
                    collapsed: true, // This section will be collapsed when the card is opened.
                    properties: ["Discontinued"]
                }
            ]
        }
    }
};
```

> The following screenshot shows an entity value card that uses the preceding code snippet. The screenshot shows the `title` object, which uses the **Product Name** and is set to **Pavlova**. The screenshot also shows `sections`. The **Quantity and price** section is collapsible and contains **Quantity Per Unit** and **Unit Price**. The **Additional information** field is collapsible and is collapsed when the card is opened.

Reviewer 2: Isn't it using both snippets?
```suggestion
The following screenshot shows an entity value card that uses the preceding code snippets. The screenshot shows the `title` object, which uses the **Product Name** and is set to **Pavlova**. The screenshot also shows `sections`. The **Quantity and price** section is collapsible and contains **Quantity Per Unit** and **Unit Price**. The **Additional information** field is collapsible and is collapsed when the card is opened.
```

:::image type="content" source="../images/excel-data-types-entity-card-sections.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing an entity value data type with the card layout window displayed. The card shows the card title and sections.":::

## Card data attribution

Entity value cards can display a data attribution to give credit to the provider of the information in the entity card. The entity value [`provider`](/javascript/api/excel/excel.entitycellvalue#excel-excel-entitycellvalue-provider-member) property uses the [`CellValueProviderAttributes`](/javascript/api/excel/excel.cellvalueproviderattributes) object, which  defines the `description`, `logoSourceAddress`, and `logoTargetAddress` values.

> The data provider property displays an image in the lower left corner of the entity card, using the `logoSourceAddress` to specify a source URL for the image. The `logoTargetAddress` value defines the URL destination if the logo image is selected. The `description` value displays as a tooltip when hovering over the logo. The `description` value also displays as a plain text fallback if the `logoSourceAddress` is not defined or if the source address for the image is broken.

Reviewer 2: Consider splitting this first sentence into two for readability.
```suggestion
The data provider property displays an image in the lower left corner of the entity card. It uses the `logoSourceAddress` to specify a source URL for the image. The `logoTargetAddress` value defines the URL destination if the logo image is selected. The `description` value displays as a tooltip when hovering over the logo. The `description` value also displays as a plain text fallback if the `logoSourceAddress` is not defined or if the source address for the image is broken.
```

The following JSON code snippet shows an entity value that uses the `provider` property to specify a data provider attribution for the entity.

> [!NOTE]

> > The following code snippet is an excerpt. To see the complete code sample, visit the [OfficeDev/office-js-snippets](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-snippets/blob/main/samples/excel/85-preview-apis/data-types-entity-attribution.yaml) repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> To see how to use this JSON in a complete code sample, visit the [OfficeDev/office-js-snippets](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-snippets/blob/main/samples/excel/85-preview-apis/data-types-entity-attribution.yaml) repository.
```

```json

> const entity: Excel.EntityCellValue = {

Reviewer 2: Same JSON/JS comment as above.

---
title: Excel JavaScript API data types entity value card
description: Learn how to use entity value cards with data types in your Excel add-in.
ms.date: 05/19/2022
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: excel
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Use cards with entity value data types (preview)

[!include[Data types preview availability note](../includes/excel-data-types-preview.md)]

> This article describes how to use the [Excel JavaScript API](../reference/overview/excel-add-ins-reference-overview.md) to create card modal windows in the Excel UI with entity value data types. These cards can display additional information contained within an entity value, beyond what's already visible in a cell, such as related images, product category information, and data attributions.

Reviewer 2: Nice addition!

The following code snippet shows the JSON for an entity value with multiple data types nested within `properties`.

> [!NOTE]
> To see how to use this JSON in a complete code sample, visit the [OfficeDev/office-js-snippets](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-snippets/blob/main/samples/excel/85-preview-apis/data-types-entity-values.yaml) repository.

> ```ts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```TypeScript
```

Within each card section you can specify elements like `layout`, `title`, and `properties`. The `layout` key uses the [`CardLayoutListSection`](/javascript/api/excel/excel.cardlayoutlistsection) object and accepts the value `"List"`. The `properties` key accepts an array of strings. Note that the `properties` values, such as `"Product ID"`, have corresponding data types in the preceding [Card properties](#card-properties) article section. Sections can also be collapsible and can be defined with boolean values as collapsed or not collapsed when the entity card is opened in the Excel UI.

> [!NOTE]
> To see how to use this JSON in a complete code sample, visit the [OfficeDev/office-js-snippets](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-snippets/blob/main/samples/excel/85-preview-apis/data-types-entity-values.yaml) repository.

> ```ts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```TypeScript
```

The data provider property displays an image in the lower left corner of the entity card. It uses the `logoSourceAddress` to specify a source URL for the image. The `logoTargetAddress` value defines the URL destination if the logo image is selected. The `description` value displays as a tooltip when hovering over the logo. The `description` value also displays as a plain text fallback if the `logoSourceAddress` is not defined or if the source address for the image is broken.

The following JSON code snippet shows an entity value that uses the `provider` property to specify a data provider attribution for the entity.

> [!NOTE]
> To see how to use this JSON in a complete code sample, visit the [OfficeDev/office-js-snippets](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-snippets/blob/main/samples/excel/85-preview-apis/data-types-entity-attribution.yaml) repository.

> ```ts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```TypeScript
```
